---
layout: default
title: Net Meeting 93
date: 6 December 2015, 1300 CET
---

<script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-1.11.1.min.js">
</script>
<script src="/javascripts/edit.js"></script>
<script>setEditButonNm();</script>

# Net Meeting 93

|||
|---|---|
| Date | 2015-12-06 13:00 CET |
| Participants | PGL, NB, KP, TO, MV, GK, HS, LF, LDC (minutes) |


## Review Status of the Action List

See [Net Meeting Actions](https://github.com/overturetool/overturetool.github.io/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action+net-meeting%22)

* 80- 1: Some progress. PGL made one video but it is insufficient. NB will provide further feedback.
* 88-1: No progress.


## Overture Language Board Status

#### Election for the Language Board

The LB will initially proceed with 7 members and PJ and MV as observers. A vote to expand to 9 members will
be held on the core mailing list. MV will organise it. (new action: https://github.com/overturetool/overturetool.github.io/issues/23)

Assuming the vote passes, the LB will move forward with the 9 members who stood for election: Ken, PeterJ, Anne ,Nick ,Marcel ,Leo ,Tomo ,Luis and Dr K

## Status of VDMTools Development

VDMTools is being handed over to Kyushu-Univ now. No status changes from last time. There is a plan to add support for pure operations.

## VDMJ

2015-11-24 Fix a problem with set pattern matching, raised by Tomo.


##  Status of the Overture Components

No updates.


##  Release Planning

No updates.


##  Community Development

#### Overture Traffic

See download stats on [the downloads page](http://overturetool.org/download/)

Heavy downloads from Porto. PGL will contact to see if we can help (new action: https://github.com/overturetool/overturetool.github.io/issues/24).

#### VDMTools Ownership

Paperwork prepared and awaits signing. It is expected that VDMTools will be made open source. KU may do further work on it but still a lot of bureaucracy to sort through. We will wait for further news. PGL will contact Araki-san so he can provide more details at the next NM (new action: https://github.com/overturetool/overturetool.github.io/issues/25).


#### 2016 NMs

Dates for the 2016 NMs have been posted at http://overturetool.org/netmeetings/


#### Research Projects

* B&O and AU will be applying for a 2-3 year post-doc for PJ to work on code generation with
contracts for C++.
* 2 AU MSc students looking into a web-based IDE for Overture
* 2 AU MSc students looking into auto-completion for the Overture IDE
* 2 AU MSc students looking into code generation (target language still to be determined)
* 1 AU MSc Student  working on mapping VDM to Rust 
* PhD at UNCL looking into integrating VDM with ASN.1/SDL 
* UNCL also have a couple of co-modelling projects this year. No Overture

##  Publications Status and Plans

* Minor updates to [Planned Publications](http://overturetool.org/publications/PlannedPublications.html) by PGL.
* MV got a paper accepted to ERTS. Will add to list. 
* New venues need to be found for TO's 2 papers

See [Planned Publications](http://overturetool.org/publications/PlannedPublications.html).


##  Any Other Business

We expect to go for a new Overture workshop in connection with FMâ€™16.

