---
layout: default
title: Net Meeting 57
date: 27 November 2011, 13h00 CET
---

<script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-1.11.1.min.js">
</script>
<script src="/javascripts/edit.js"></script>
<script>setEditButonNm();</script>

# Net Meeting 57

|||
|---|---|
| Date | 27 November 2011, 13h00 CET |
| Participants | Peter Gorm Larsen, Shin Sahara, Hiroshi Sako, Kenneth Lausdahl, Nick Battle, Marcel Verhoef (minutes), Joey Coleman, Ken Pierce, John Fitzgerald. |

Review of Action List
---------------------

The current list of action items can be found
[<https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?limit=25&func>=&group\_id=141350&atid=775371&assignee=&status=&category=&artgroup=&keyword=&submitter=&artifact\_id=&assignee=&status=1&category=&artgroup=&submitter=&keyword=&artifact\_id=&submit=Filter&mass\_category=&mass\_priority=&mass\_assignee=&mass\_artgroup=&mass\_status=&mass\_cannedresponse=&\_visit\_cookie=041071fcd0c16ea6368e7f78e5bb1e4b
here].

-   41/1 : remains open
-   52/1 : work in progress, see elsewhere in this report
-   52/2 : nearly completed, but remains open
-   55/1 : closed
-   56/1 : closed (on the agenda today)

VDMTools
--------

Shin Sahara has provided his usual report by email to which no questions
where raised. It was noted that several language changes and additions
to the standard libraries were reported this period. These language
changes have also been submitted to the Language Board for
consideration.

A short discussion was held to decide whether or not the implemented
library changes should be made to VDMJ (and Overture) too (answer: yes)
but also whether or not these libraries are part of the language and
changes should therefore also be suggested to (and approved by) the
Language Board. Nick will write a short note to the LB to ask their
opinion on that matter (Action).

Overture
--------

Status on VDMJ and Overture have been reported by e-mail by Nick and
Kenneth. The AST restructuring is nearly finished and expected to be
released before the end of this year (move back to the main development
branch). No questions were raised during the meeting.

Language Board
--------------

Nick reports on the progress made by the Language Board, pointing to
their most recent [
minutes](Minutes_of_the_LB_NM%2C_20th_November_2011 "wikilink"). The LB
suggest to change the OCP to allow seven members instead of five, so the
board can be more effective. Everyone is asked to consider this proposal
formally (action), although no objections where received at the meeting.
Marcel has kindly offered to step forward and volunteer as an additional
LB member in 2012.

Release Management
------------------

Joey has started work on improvement of the build server. Aim is to
simplify the build process such that it is easier to contribute. Ken
reports still having issues replicating the current build process. Work
is ongoing along side the restructuring of the Overture AST and plans
are to make an intermediate 1.1.1 release shortly which will have new
VDMJ features included and move to Overture 2.0.0 with the new AST and
the build infrastructure. This release is expected to appear around
Christmas.

Furthermore, we have noticed a significant increase in downloads (in
particular from Portugal) over the last month. Perhaps a new course has
started for which Overture is being used.

Strategic Research Agenda
-------------------------

The strategic research agenda was moved from the VDM portal to the
Overture Wiki. No comments were received on the current draft, but
everyone is asked to read and review it and make suggestions for
changing it. Every other NM the research agenda will be reviewed.

Publication plans
-----------------

The current publication plans were discussed. Everyone is asked to add
the target conference or journal to their entry, such that it is easier
to see who is submitting where (Action). Furthermore everyone is asked
to chase the people in their social network to consider submitting
papers to ABZ (Pisa, Italy) which will have a seperate VDM workshop.

Any Other Business
------------------

None.

Next Meeting
------------

18 December 2011, 13h00 CET.

   <div id="edit_page_div"></div>