---
layout: default
title: Net Meeting 32
date: 8 February 2009, 1400 CET
---

<script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-1.11.1.min.js">
</script>
<script src="/javascripts/edit.js"></script>
<script>setEditButonNm();</script>

# Net Meeting 32

|||
|---|---|
| Date | 8 February 2009, 1400 CET |
| Participants | Peter Gorm Larsen, Shin Sahara, Nick Battle and Miguel Ferreira, MarcelVerhoef, SanderVermolen and David Holst MÃ¸ller. |

Review of Action List
---------------------

The actions are all at Overture on SourceForge.

-   24/4 Find out about Rodin Tool plug-in standard - Assigned to
    Christian Thillerman. - Ongoing
-   30/1 Update user list on SF - Closed
-   31/1 John F & Miguel: Draft Lightweight Community Process - Ongoing
-   31/2 ALL: let John & Miguel know views on Comm Process- Closed
-   31/3 Doodle for Newcastle Workshop Dates - Ongoing
-   32/1 Miguel: Dialog about whether to keep VDM and OML committees
    separate. - new
-   32/2: Peter Gorm Larsen: Come up with an alternative logo - new
-   32/3: Peter Grom Larsen: Sty file for Overture Doc - new
-   32/4: Marcel: Copy all files from the Overture wiki so Kenneth
    Lausdahl can work on a new layout - new

John sent some inputs to 31/1 to Peter by mail:

There is some progress following very helpful input from Miguel and from
Nick. I don't think we have had major inputs from anyone else. Miguel
has started a draft Process and we would like, I think, to have a full
proposal in a few weeks but at the mometn there is a point I would like
you to discuss in the NM. The Process provides for managing changes to
both the Overture Modelling Language and the tools. We have a single
committee that manages this process and calls in expert opinions on
whether changes should proceed. Nick had a suggestion that we shodl
separate the language and tools elements because, for example, the
language definition might be of more interest to researchers while the
tools element might have to take account of commercial aspects. If we
adopt this, we would use the same process in two parallel streams. I am,
however, worried about synchronisation of the language definitions and
the tools (and there will be documents in common, such as operational
semantics). So I would like some feedback form the meeting on whether we
should proceed with a single or two parallel processes.

Miguel: If we decide to keep the committees separate, both VDM and OML
can be addressed in the language committee in articulation with the
tools committee. If we merge the committees in a single process that
addresses only Overture stuff (OML + tools), we will probably make OML
drift further away from VDM language as used by the VDMTools. Having
said that, John asked me to put up a question in debate: "should we keep
OML synchronised with VDM? Well, I think we really differentiated the
two languages because we wanted to allow the possibility of extensions
to OML without having to worry about the effects on VDMTools, which
stick to ISO Standard VDM (well, fairly approximately). The situation is
confused because the languages are virtually identical at the moment."

Miguel is responsible for the the action: Start email discussion on
language board

About '31/3 Doodle for Newcastle Workshop Dates' John has told Peter: "I
set up the doodle but didn't announce it yet. This has been for the
reason that we have been organising Deploy project meetings for the
period up to and around Easter and I can not risk a clash. I will
complete this action this coming week. We still fully intend to hold
this workshop in Newcastle." The tool oriented workshop in Newcastle is
still planned soon.

VDMTools
--------

Shin sent out the usual VDMTools report - nobody had any comments Shin
reported that 200 people have been trained in VDM as CSK, about 15
people are using.

Overture
--------

Status for each of the Overture components at sourceforge

ast (Marcel)

Marcel reports that 'work is progressing fine' and that things will be
ready so that a trial session can be run on the new repository when he
comes to Denmark.

potrans (Miguel)

Miguel's status on the PO translation is that about 20 out about 90 POs
can be translated. He is in dialouge with Nick about them.

testgen (Peter)

Target for release date is still the end of Februrary

eclipse (Christian and David)

Still having a bit of trouble getting the debugging up and running.
There's a update-site at
<http://overtureeditor.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/Workspace/org.overturetool.update-site/>
For the time being the features are:

-   Syntax highlighting
-   Outline - Quick outline
-   Parsing
-   Type Check
-   Perspective
-   Preferences site
-   Publication plans

Publication status
------------------

In preparation:

-   Paper path case study (Marcel)
-   ACM Computing Surveys paper on industrial applications of FMs
    (Peter, Juan, John)
-   Tools for Policy Design in Virtual Organizations: A Proof-of-Concept
    Study (John, Jeremy)
-   VICE Process paper (John, Peter, Sune Wolff) for Dines Bjoerner
-   Pos for Recursive Functions (Augusto, Peter)
-   VDM++ and JML (Carlos, Peter)
-   Felica (Mr Kurita and maybe Shin?)
-   New proof paper (Sander, Peter, John, Augusto, Jozef)

In review:

-   2nd edition of "Modelling Systems", Cambridge University Press (John
    & Peter) Now with CUP and being copy-edited

In press:

-   Jozef and Marcel: Formal Semantics of a VDM Extension for
    Distributed Embedded Systems; to appear in Festschrift for W P de
    Roever (LNCS).
-   Jozef, A summary of the FM06 and IFM07 paper and enhanced the PVS
    models, to appear in Festschrift for W P de Roever (LNCS).

Recently appeared (since last NM): None

Any Other Business
------------------

None

Next Meeting
------------

March 8th 2009, 1300 CET

   <div id="edit_page_div"></div>