---
layout: default
title: Net Meeting 15
date: 4 February 2007, 1200 CET
---

<script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-1.11.1.min.js">
</script>
<script src="/javascripts/edit.js"></script>
<script>setEditButonNm();</script>

# Net Meeting 15

|||
|---|---|
| Date | 4 February 2007, 1200 CET |
| Participants | John Fitzgerald, Peter Gorm Larsen, Hugo Macedo, Shin Sahara, Marcel Verhoef, Sander Vermolen |

Review of Action List
---------------------

The actions are all at Overture on SourceForge.

-   9/10 Closed
-   10/2 Closed
-   13/2 remains open. John suggested that job could be done as a
    by-product of the Mondex challenge. He has contacted Jeremy Bryans
    (leading the Mondex challenge) to ask for this to be done.
-   14/1 Closed. The Third Overture Workshop was considered a success.
    Thanks to all those who contributed.
-   14/2 remains open. Discussed further when considering the research
    agenda.
-   **Action 15/1** (replaces unnumbered item on project descriptions):
    Project descriptions to go on overturetool.org (John) for subsequent
    extension (Peter)

VDMTools
--------

Status of VDMTools development
:   Shin reported that CSK has opened a VDMTools subversion source
    repository: <https://www.vdmtools.jp/svn/vdmtools/> It is free of
    charge, but you have to sign a following non disclosure agreement
    with CSK Systems before accessing the repository. Peter and Marcel
    had used the SVN reporsitory successfully.

Bug reporting for VDMTools bugs
:   Nothing to report at present.

Overture
--------

Parser movedto Sourceforce and testing of it
:   Estimate moving the parser to sourceforge on 1 April. The wiki
    distribution is sufficient for current purposes. Any problems with
    the parser can be addressed on demand by Marcel (by email in the
    first instance).

<!-- -->

Status of Thomas' work on the Overture type checker
:   Peter had no explicit status message regarding the static semantics
    but understands that Thomas is almost finished with the subset that
    he will be able to cover. He needs then to write up the actual
    thesis. The Static Semantics should go into Sourceforge, along with
    the parser.

-   **Action 15/2:** Thomas to place static semantics on Sourceforge
    (Peter)

Welcome to Hugo and Sander starting their MSc thesis work on Overture
:   We welcomed Hugo and Sander!

<!-- -->

More potential projects for Overture
:   Discussed already.

<!-- -->

Structure of future Overture research
:   John has agreed to make a pass over the There is a Strategic
    Research Agenda (SRA) wiki topic at vdmportal.org.

<!-- -->

:   At [3rd Overture Workshop](3rd Overture Workshop "wikilink") in
    Newcastle we agreed to try to develop and maintain a Strategic
    Research Agenda. This is a sort of guide that will allow people to
    easily join us and select cool research topics to address and write
    papers about etc. It also allows us to ensure coverage of important
    core concepts so that we do not end up with rather patchy research
    with some core areas not addressed. We agreed to structure research
    activity into three strands of work: Semantics; Methods &
    Applications and Tools. For example, Hugo's work will largely fit
    within the Tools strand.

<!-- -->

:   Cutting across the three strands of research, we will have
    Challenges. These are focussed specific problems that bring together
    research in several areas and allows us to see our progress and also
    allows us to test out developments. The three main challenges under
    consideration at the moment are "Mondex", "Pacemaker" and "Posix".

<!-- -->

:   John proposes that the SRA page should evolve by the lead contacts
    in each stream or challenge soliciting brainstorm lists of open
    research problems in their area, as well as identifying important
    base research that should be done in order to provide a suitable
    platform. For example, in Semantics, John will have "Denotational
    Semantics of VDM++" as a base topic and "Can we adequately represent
    LPF in HOL" as an open question. As an example of a challenge,
    Marcel could propose a specific problem arising out of his doctoral
    work, such as modelling and analysis of a photocopier controller.

-   **Action 15/3:** Progress the SRA by asking strand and challenge
    leaders to brainstorm open questions and identify areas of more
    basic research that shoudl be addressed (John).

Mondex and Pacemaker case studies
---------------------------------

Our first challenge is Mondex - an electronic purse system specified and
designed via data refinement originally in Z. Several people have
expressed interest in tackling Mondex in VDM. This work is being led by
Jeremy Bryans at Newcastle. A workshop is scheduled for 2-3 April at
Newcastle for the interested people to make concrete progress. Prior to
that, a reading group at Newcastle will review the monograph that
describes the Mondex study in Z.

The Pacemaker study has now been released and we need to find a champion
within the Overture community. It was suggested that CSR Newcastle could
again take the lead, with Zoe Andrews contributing, as the application
lends itself well to the work that Marcel and Zoe have been doing on
stochastic fault modelling. It's also Zoe's potential PhD topic, which
John would supervise.

-   **Action 15/4:** Produce a concrete proposal for progressing the
    Pacemaker study. (John, Peter, Marcel)

Any Other Business
------------------

John suggested having a discussion of publication status and plans as a
regular topic in Overture net meetings.

-   **Action 15/5:** Add publication status and plans as a regular topic
    in Overture net meetings (Peter).

Next Meeting
------------

4 March 2007 1200 CET

   <div id="edit_page_div"></div>
  
