---
layout: default
title: Net Meeting 20
date: 26 August 2007, 1300 CET
---

<script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-1.11.1.min.js">
</script>
<script src="/javascripts/edit.js"></script>
<script>setEditButonNm();</script>

# Net Meeting 20

|||
|---|---|
| Date | 26 August 2007, 1300 CET |
| Participants | John Fitzgerald,Peter Gorm Larsen, Hugo Macedo, Shin Sahara, Emma Nicholls |

Review of Action List
---------------------

The actions are all at Overture on SourceForge.

-   13/2 Ongoing: Waiting for new participants.
-   15/2 Ongoing: Thomas is going to write the wiki about the
    TypeCheker?.
-   15/3 Closed.
-   15/4 Closed.
-   16/1 Ongoing.

VDMTools
--------

Status and development plans for VDMTools version 8.xx
:   Shin reported the development plan in this year is:
    -   make VDM++TesK like test case generator prototype

<http://www.ispras.ru/~RedVerst/RedVerst/White%20Papers/vdmtesk/Main.html>

:\*make BIT, BYTE class as standard library

:   Functionality required by an important customer.
:   Actually trying to get the third user from the embedded system
    world, the important point is how to write a requirement
    specification for embedded systems. And, important point in the near
    future is how to connect Simulink models with VDM requirement
    specification.

<!-- -->

Bug reporting for VDMTools bugs
:   Nothing to report, no bug report from Europe.
:   There are some bugs in version 8.0.1b-070820, and dr.k has fixed,
    but he didn't uploaded it yet.

Overture
--------

Status of Thomas' work on the Overture type checker
:   Thomas will be asked to report on wiki.

<!-- -->

Status of Hugo's work on the Overture interpreter
:   Work is finished. The interpreter runs for some cases but further
    development need to be carried on. The interpreter wiki page will
    contain the information needed for the continuation.

<!-- -->

Status of Sander's work on the Overture proof support
:   Sander had network problems, so nothing to report.

<!-- -->

The MONDEX case study
:   Latest report from Jeremy at The VDM Mondex Page. We are progressing
    slowly but things have moved forward in the last couple of weeks
    since John gave a proof tutorial. John is giving much more time to
    this in order to move things forward. Our goal is to have a
    Technical Report on Mondex by November and to try to give a paper on
    Mondex at the GC6 workshop proposed for FM'08.

Wikipedia
---------

John converted the VDM-SL article to interchange syntax and corrected it
in a few places (more corrections may be needed). He also updated the
general VDM article, which was mostly about reification. The two
articles have been merged and the VDM-SL article now auto-redirects to
VDM. Most "double redirects" have been eliminated. References have been
updated.

The merged article now requires considerable smoothing plus:

-   Removal of VDM-SL detail that is already in the textbooks.
-   Writing more interesting material on the particular features of VDM
-   Addition of material on the tools and industrial use
-   Addition of further external links and references.

This is wikipedia, so of course anyone is welcome to make additions and
updates. Peter agreed to provide material on tool support and industry
usage while John's next job is to cut down the language description to
just a discussion of the interesting features.

Anyone is welcome to contribute. If you plan any major changes, let John
know so that duplication of effort can be avoided.

Publication Plans
-----------------

In preparation:

-   Paper path case study (Marcel)
-   PhD thesis (Marcel)
-   MSc Thesis (Hugo)
-   Pacemaker modelling & validation (Hugo leading, Peter, John)
-   Paper about proof work (Sander leading)
-   Ways of handling Equality in LPF (John and Cliff) for IPL
-   ACM Computing Surveys paper on industrial applications of FMs
    (Peter, Juan, John)
-   New Wikipedia entry on “VDM”, replacing current separate entries on
    VDM and VDM-SL. (John)
-   FeliCa paper (Araki, Peter and FeliCa)
-   2nd edition of "Modelling Systems", Cambridge University Press (John
    & Peter)

In review:

-   Wiley Encyclopedia of Computer Science & Engineering entry on "VDM"
    (John, Peter, Marcel)
-   "Learning by Doing" (John, Peter), submitted to FACJ special issue
    on education
-   "The Connection between Two Ways of Reasoning about Partial
    Functions" (John and Cliff), submitted to Information Processing
    Letters

In press:

-   Traces Paper (John, Peter, Simon, Marcel), accepted by HASE07
-   Formal models of access control in XACML (Jeremy,John) accepted by
    ICFEM 2007
-   Workshop submission on visualizing models of access control in
    dynamic coalitions (Jeremy and John) to Pro-VE 2007
-   "Balancing Insight and Effort: the Industrial Uptake of Formal
    Methods" (Peter, John), to apear in Proc. Dines' Festschrift
-   Triumphs & Challenges for Lightweight Apps of M-O FMs (John, Peter,
    keynote) in Proc Isola 2006 (IEEE proc., but no response from
    editors on publication date yet).
-   Dynamic Coalitions (Jeremy, John) in Proc. Isola 2006 (IEEE proc.,
    but no response from editors on publication date yet)
-   The LPF and VDM (John) in Dines and Martin Henson's new book (with
    Springer, estimated release 8 November).

Recently Appeared:

-   MSc Thesis (Sander)
-   IFM Paper (Marcel et al.)
-   DSN Fast Abstracts (Zoe, Marcel, John, Jeremy)

Other Business
--------------

Grand Challenges
:   We will have a regular agenda item on Grand Challenges (Mondex,
    Posix file store, Pacemaker) in future. This is not specifically
    part of VDMTools or Overture but is part of the Strategic Research
    Agenda.

<!-- -->

:   We will look for a champion to progress work on the Posix File Store
    challenge . John F will contact Jose (who has had some students
    working in the area) an also look for support on the vdm-forum
    mailing list.

<!-- -->

:   GC6 is planning a series of Grand Challenge workshops. Current
    proposals are:
    1.  An introductory workshop on the Posix challenge adjacent to the
        ICFEM 2007 conference. Jim made a proposal to the organisers of
        ICFEM (November 2007, Miami, USA) to run an introductory
        workshop on the Posix file store. We are waiting for the
        response. If this goes ahead, John will likely attend the event
        (rather than go to HASE'07 in Dallas where Peter is giving the
        traces paper).
    2.  A workshop adjacent to the BCS-FACS Christmas meeting. Jim has
        not made progress on that but has asked if John would get
        involved in organising it. John will approach BCS-FACS (Paul
        Boca and Jonathan Bowen) to assess the feasibility of holding it
        the day after the FACS workshop. It is believed this workshop
        would also be an attempt to gather interest in the Posix File
        Store challenge.
    3.  FM’08: A series of four half-day workshops on GCs are to be
        proposed for the Monday & Tuesday before the Symposium proper.
        IJim hasn't indicated submission dates but no answer yet.

<!-- -->

VDM at FM'08
:   We agreed to aim to hold a workshop at FM'08. Shin and Peter will
    coordinate the production of the proposal to John Derrick by 18
    November. We decided not to offer a tutorial.

Next Meeting
------------

14 October 2007, 1300 CET

   <div id="edit_page_div"></div>