---
layout: default
title: Net Meeting 65
date: 11th November 2012, 1300 CEST
---

<script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-1.11.1.min.js">
</script>
<script src="/javascripts/edit.js"></script>
<script>setEditButonNm();</script>

# Net Meeting 65

|||
|---|---|
| Date | 11th November 2012, 1300 CEST |
| Participants | Peter, Nick, Marcel, Joey, Shin, Sako |

Review of Action List
---------------------

-   41/1, no progress
-   59/1, no progress - PGL suggested this is closed
-   63/1, ongoing. Suggestion from Joey that we move the lists to West,
    with Nico's help.

VDMTools
--------

### Status of VDMTools development

Version v9.0.2 - Tue 06-Nov-2012 09:45:47 +0900

### Bug reporting for VDMTools bugs

Fixed bugs of overloaded function (in multiple inheritance, and
different result type)

Overture
--------

### Status for each of the Overture components

-   VDMJ

Three small bugfixes applied: one to allow graceful failure if a CT test
doesn't generate any tests, one to correct an invalid type inference in
the type checker with multiplication expressions, and one to correct POs
generated for map patterns.

-   ASTv2

Work has started on the ASTv2 extensions functionality by Rasmus and
Anders. Good progress as been made, but it's only used in the COMPASS
project tool for now.

-   Overture 2.0.0alpha

A guide to usage and what to test is pending an opportunity to write it
up but, otherwise, please give it a shot.

### Overture Language Board

[Minutes of last meeting, on 14th
October](Minutes_of_the_LB_NM%2C_14th_October_2012 "wikilink")

Briefly, the LB is no longer tracking the Core language initiative as
progress cannot resume until next year at the earliest. Some progress
has been made recently with LRM updates to match the RMs being
processed. Next LB meeting is scheduled for today (11th).

### Release Planning

No updates.

### Next Overture Workshop

Suggestion is to hold it in combination with IFM2013 in Turku Finland
next year. No updates, but PGL to discuss with JF next week.

### Use of StackOverflow for user community

There is some merit to this idea. I was suggested that other channels be
closed if we adopt it. Action on PGL to discuss with Kenneth and the
Alloy community and investigate further how to set this up. This could
also include VDMTools of course.

Strategic Research Agenda (every other NM)
------------------------------------------

No updates.

Publication plans
-----------------

See [Planned Publications](Planned Publications "wikilink").

Any Other Business
------------------

None.

Next Meeting
------------

Next meeting scheduled for 16th December.

   <div id="edit_page_div"></div>